CSS:

css stands for cascading style sheet.
it is not a programming language, it is a styling language.
it is a language that is used to describe the style of a document.

red is a happiness color
blue is a stability color

Boiler plate code
Emmet abbreviation

Syntax of CSS:

1. Selector:

we use selector to write css
selector selects the html elements on which this style will be applied.

2. Open Curly braces {:

after selector, type open curly braces.

3. Property & value:

then css property and value in it.

4. Close Curly braces }:

then close the culy braces.

Representation:

selector {
    property: value;
}

first tell the property that you want to set to HTML elements
then tell the value on which we want to set OR type the value of that property

if we want to set the color of text, content or material then the name of the property is "color"

Code:

h1 {
    color: red;
}

there is a color picker icon next to the value of property.
we can also change the text color from this color picker icon
semi-colon is the statement terminator.

Note:   if we don't write semi-colon at the end of value, when we write single property value pair then code will work but this is not good.
        this is the best praticse to write semi-colon at the end.

Types of CSS:

there are 3 type sof css:

1. inline css - 
2. internal css - 
3. external css - create an external ".css" file and link this file to html file using <link> tag in the head section below the title tag.

1. Inline CSS:

use "style" attribute in start tag to define inline css.

2. Internal CSS:

use "style" tag in head section below the "title" tag to define internal css.

3. External CSS:

create an external CSS file with ".css" extension and link this file to html file by using "link" tag in the head section below the "title" tag.
in this file, we only write CSS for a specific html file.
we try to not write css in html file, write css in external file and this is the professional way to write css. 
The most used "CSS type" is "External CSS".

Note:

if we create an external css file,
and write css in it for html file,
save this external css file
then check output 

and you will see the CSS did not applied in that html file
because we created 2 files: 1 html file and 1 css file,
and we did not link this external css file with html document, 
so this is the reason css did not applied, 
and when we link the css file to html file then css will be applied to that html file.

Link External CSS File to HTML Document:

to link the external css file to html document, we use link tag under the head section and below the title tag.

Syntax: 

<link rel="" href="">

rel and href are the attributes of link tag.

in "rel" attribute, we need to define the relation of external file with html document
we write "stylesheet" in the value of "rel" attribute, because there is a relation of "stylesheet" betwen html file and external file.

in "href" attribute, we need to define the address of external css file

Representation:

<link rel="define relation of external file with html file" href="address of external file">

Code:

<link rel="stylesheet" href="style.css">

after that check the output of HTML file.

Summarize:

3 methods to write css for html file:

inline 
internal 
external

External CSS is most used and practical way to write CSS for html file.

Note:

those styles that are written in external css file, so we don't try to change those styles by inline or internal css,
and if we try to change then always inline CSS get the first priority.

and if we do this (change the same external styles with inline css), 
then we got confused and will not remember that what styles defined in external and inline css for html elements, 
and we can not do this in companies and large projects.

Part Notes Completed Here!
