2 Starts Here!

CSS Color Property:

defines the foreground color.

{

foreground meaning?

there are 2 types of elements:

1. foreground elements 
2. backgrouund elements 

the element which is present in the front is called foreground.

Examples of foreground elements:
text, buttons, icons, link 

the element which is present behind the front is called backgrouund.
backgrouund element is hidden behind the foreground element.

Examples of background elements:
body, form, table, list, anchor 

what are the list of foreground elements in HTML?
what are the list of background elements in HTML?

}

there are many colors that we define by "name" of that color.

we can also select the colors from color picker icon and suggestion after typing ":" after css property.

2.1 Starts Here!

CSS Background Color Property:

defines the background color.

Examples of background elements:
body, form, table, list, anchor 

set the backround color of body element/page.
bydefault the backround color of "body" element is "white" but we change it with css.

set the backround color of button element.

Note:

We select the button element 2 times in external css file, at first when we define the text color of button, second we define the background color of button.
we instead of this, we can select element only 1 time and give multiple css properties to that element

2.2 Starts Here!

Color Systems:

we have learnt if we want to define the color of element then we can do this by "color names" like red, blue, orange, purple, yellow, etc.
but there are alot of colors in the spectrum that names may be does not exist.
if we want to set any shade of green color, and this shade does not have the name, so how can we do this.
so we can do this by using color systems.

2 Color Systems:

there are many color systems in css but the 2 most used color systems are:

1. RGB 
2. Hex

another 1 more but it is not important so much:

3. HSLA

1. RGB Color System:

first understand the Primary colors.

Primary Colors:

there are 3 Primary colors:

1. reg 
2. green 
3. blue

all the colors that exist, are the mixtures of above 3 colors.

Primary Color Theory:

the primary color theory are as follows:

Mixture of 2 color combinations:

red + green = yellow
red + blue = violet 
blue + green = light sky blue

mixture of all above 3 colors in equal quantity:
red + green + blue = white

rgb ka konse color ka kitni quantity leni hai usk lye ham use krte hn RGB color values
in the rgb color, we defines the higher or lower quantities of color in "number"
and there is a limit of quantities of rgb color from "0 to 255".
we can define the different shades of colors by using this limit of 0 to 255.

0 means the lower quantity of the RGB color
255 means the highest quantity of the RGB color

in RGB color, we write 3 numbers:

one number for red, one for blue and one for green 

Syntax of RGB Color:

color: rgb(red, green, blue);

for pure red color:
color: rgb(255, 0, 0);

in the above values red is the highest quantity
in the above values green and blue is the lowest quantity and nothing to appear

for pure green color:
color: rgb(0, 255, 0);

in the above values green is the highest quantity
in the above values red and blue is the lowest quantity and nothing to appear

for pure blue color:
color: rgb(0, 0, 255);

in the above values blue is the highest quantity
in the above values green and red is the lowest quantity and nothing to appear

we can also do like this:
color: rgb(45, 35, 120);

in the above values, the highest color value is blue and red and green is the lowest value.

if we want the yellow color by using RGB color values, then we can do this according to primary color theory:

theroy of pure yellow color is:

mixture of pure red and green color:

rgb(255, 255, 0)

above is the pure yellow color

we can also increase or decrease the values under the limit of color values.

if we increase the value of red and decrease the value of green, then orange shade will be formed: 

rgb(255, 180, 0)

if we decrease the value of red and increase the value of green, then green shade will be formed: 

rgb(180, 255, 0)

2.3 Starts Now!

2. Hex Color System:

it is a Hexadecimal color system.
hex color system also defines rgb colors, but it is the short form to write rgb colors, value set the same as rgb colors. 
in hex color system, there are numbers limit from 0 to 15.

in maths, there are digits from 0 to 10.
after 9, there is digit 10 which is 1 and 0. 
and this is called decimal in maths, because in the word decimal, "dec" means 10.
decimal are like this: 4754

in binary, there are 2 digits: o and 1, and all the other digits are formed from these 2 digits.
binary numbers like this: 0100011010111

there are Hexadecimal number system:
hexa means 6 and decimal means 10 
means there are 16 digits in hexadecimal number system
digits present in this number system more than maths.

decimal digits are from 0 to 9 
and hexa digits are from a to f means a,b,c,d,e,f
a means 10 
b means 11 
b means 15

in rgb color system, we can set the range of red, green and blue color from 0 to 255.

hex color value starts with "#", otherwise color does not work.
in hex color system, we write 0 using 00 and 255 using ff.
if we write "ff 00 00", then it is red color because quantity of green and blue color is 0.
if we write green color then: 00ff00
if we write blue color then: 0000ff

practise: 

set the background of webpage to yellow using hex color value.




