CSS:

css stands for cascading style sheet.
it is not a programming language, it is a styling language.
it is a language that is used to add and describe the styles of a document.
if we want to add styles to a webpage, then we must add or write CSS for that webpage. 

some information about the color:

red is a happiness color
blue is a stability color

In HTML:

Boiler plate code
Emmet abbreviation

create an HTML file
to write css, we need an HTML file
without html file, css have not been written

Syntax of CSS:

the syntax of css consists into 3 things:

1. Selector
2. curly bracses {}
3. property and value

1. Selector:

Selector is used to select HTML elements in css file.
selector selects the html elements on which those styles will be applied, that we will define.

Syntax:

selector

selector kuch bhi ho sakta hai "h1" ya "p" ya kuch or.

the above 2 are the selectors, that we write in css to select the HTML elements then give style to the elements.

2. Open Curly braces "{":

after selector, type open curly braces.

Syntax:

selector {

3. Property & value:

inside the open curly braces, we define css "property and value" to define style for HTML elements.
after property must write colon ":" 
after value must write semi-colon ";" otherwise it gives error at the end, semi-colon is the statement terminator.

Syntax:

selector {
    property: value;

4. Close Curly braces "}":

after property and value, close the culy braces.

Syntax:

selector {
    property: value;
}

first, define the property that you want to set to HTML element
then define the value of that property on which we want to set the HTML element.

Example:

if we want to set the color of any text, content or material then the name of the css property is "color".

first type the property inside the "selector" and betwen "{}", then type the "value" of "color property", which color you want to set. 

Code:

h1 {
    color: red;
}

the above code will set the "h1" heading color to red.

there is a "color picker icon" next to the "value of property".
we can also change the color of "text" from this "color picker icon"

Note:

if we don't write semi-colon at the end of "value", when we write single property value pair then code will work but this is not good.
but when we write more than 1 property value pair then our code may be gives error
so this is the best praticse to write semi-colon at the end.

Types of CSS:

there are 3 types of css:

1. inline css 
2. internal css  
3. external css - create an external ".css" file and link this file to html file using <link> tag in the head section below the title tag.

1. Inline CSS:

use "style" attribute in start tag to define style, it is called Inline CSS.

code of inline css is present in the "1 inline css.html" file

2. Internal CSS:

use "style" tag, below the "title" tag in head section to define the "internal css".

3. External CSS:

create an external CSS file with ".css" extension and link this file to html file by using "link" tag in the head section below the "title" tag.

in this file, we only write CSS for a single html file.

we try to not write css in html file, write css in external file and this is the most uesd and professional way to write css. 

The most used CSS type is "External CSS".

Note:

if we create an external css file,
and write css in it for html file,
save this external css file
then check output 

so you will see the CSS did not applied in that html file,
because we created 2 files: 1 html file and 1 css file,
and we did not link this external css file with our html document jisko ham style dena chahte hn, 
so this is the reason css did not applied, 
and when we link the css file to html file then css will be applied to that html file.

Link "External CSS File" to HTML Document:

to link the external css file to html document, use the html link tag under the head section and below the title tag.
link is a self closing tag, it does not have an empty tag 

Syntax:

<link rel="" href="">

"rel" and "href" are the attributes of "link" tag.

in "rel" attribute, we need to define the "relation of external file" with "html document",
we write "stylesheet" in the value of "rel" attribute, because there is a relation of "stylesheet" betwen "html" file and "external" file.

in "href" attribute, we need to define the address/name/path of external css file

Representation:

<link rel="define relation of external file with html file" href="address of external file">

Code:

<link rel="stylesheet" href="style.css">

after that check the output of HTML file.

Summarize:

3 methods to write css for html file:

inline - use style attribute  
internal - use style tag
external - create external file and link it with html document using link tag

External CSS is the most used and practical method to write CSS for html file.

the highest priority gives to those jo head k ander bad m likha gya ho "style tag" or "style.css" m se, or in 3ino m sab se ziada priority "inline css" ki hoti hai. 

Note:

we don't try to change the styles by "inline" or "internal" css, that are written in "external css file",
and if we try to change it with inline or internal css then always inline or internal CSS get the first priority and if internal or inline css, then only inline css will be the highest priority.

and if we do this (change the same external styles with inline css), 
then we got confused and will not remember that what styles defined in external and inline css for html elements, 
and we can not do this in companies and large projects.
we try to use only external css

View Page Source
Inspect Element

there is an element selector in Inspect element


Part 1 Notes Completed Here!
